# Active Directory
---

AD is the directory service for **Windows Domain Networks**. Is a collection of machines and servers connected inside of domains, that are a collective part of a bigger forest of domains, that make up the AD network.
* Domain Controllers
* Forests, Trees, Domains
* Users + Groups 
* Trusts
* Policies 
* Domain Services

AD allows the control and monitoring of their user's computer through a domain controller(DC). The DC is allow to sign in to any machine on the AD network and have access to all files, folders and local storage. This allows any user in the company to use any machine without having to set up multiple users on a single machine.

### Domain Controllers
DC is a Windows server that has AD Domain Services (AD DS) installed and has been promoted to a DC in the forest. DC **are the center** of AD. They control the rest of the domain.
* Holds the AD DS data store 
* Handles authentication and authorization services 
* Replicate updates from other domain controllers in the forest
* Allows admin access to manage domain resources

### AD DS Data Store
The AD DS holds the databases and processes needed to store and manage directory information such as users, groups, and services.
* Contains the NTDS.dit - a database that contains all of the information of an Active Directory domain controller as well as password hashes for domain users
* Stored by default in %SystemRoot%\NTDS
* Accessible only by the domain controller



# The Forest
---
*"Forest", it is only a way of describing the connection created between these trees and domains by the network.*

The Forest is what defines everything. It's the container that holds all of the other bits and pieces of the network together -- without the forest all of the other trees and domains would not be able to interact.
A forest is a collection of one or more Domain Trees inside of a AD Network. It is what categorizes the parts of the network as a whole.

* Trees - A hierarchy of domains in Active Directory Domain Services
* Domains - Used to group and manage objects 
* Organizational Units (OUs) - Containers for groups, computers, users, printers and other OUs
* Trusts - Allows users to access resources in other domains
* Objects - users, groups, printers, computers, shares
* Domain Services - DNS Server, LLMNR, IPv6
* Domain Schema - Rules for object creation



# Users + Groups
---
### Users
Users are the core of AD.
There are four main types of users you'll find in an Active Directory network; however, there can be more depending on how a company manages the permissions of its users. The four types of users are: 

* Domain Admins - This is the big boss: they control the domains and are the only ones with access to the domain controller.
* Service Accounts (Can be Domain Admins) - These are for the most part never used except for service maintenance, they are required by Windows for services such as SQL to pair a service with a service account.
* Local Administrators - These users can make changes to local machines as an administrator and may even be able to control other normal users, but they cannot access the domain controller
* Domain Users - These are your everyday users. They can log in on the machines they have the authorization to access and may have local administrator rights to machines depending on the organization.

### Groups
Groups make it easier to give permissions to users and objects by organizing them into groups with specified permissions. There are two overarching types of Active Directory groups: 
* Security Groups - These groups are used to specify permissions for a large number of users.
* Distribution Groups - These groups are used to specify email distribution lists. As an attacker these groups are less beneficial to us but can still be beneficial in enumeration.

#### Default Security Groups
There are a lot of default secutiry groups. A brief outline of the security groups:
* Domain Controllers - All domain controllers in the domain.
* Domain Guests - All domain guests.
* Domain Users - All domain users.
* Domain Computers - All workstations and servers joined to the domain.
* Domain Admins - Designated administrators of the domain.
* Enterprise Admins - Designated administrators of the enterprise.
* Schema Admins - Designated administrators of the schema.
* DNS Admins - DNS Administrators Group.
* DNS Update Proxy - DNS clients who are permitted to perform dynamic updates on behalf of some other clients (such as DHCP servers).
* Allowed RODC Password Replication Group - Members in this group can have their passwords replicated to all read-only domain controllers in the domain.
* Group Policy Creator Owners - Members in this group can modify group policy for the domain.
* Denied RODC Password Replication Group - Members in this group cannot have their passwords replicated to any read-only domain controllers in the domain.
* Protected Users - Members of this group are afforded additional protections against authentication security threats. See http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=298939 for more information.
* Cert Publishers - Members of this group are permitted to publish certificates to the directory.
* Read-Only Domain Controllers - Members of this group are Read-Only Domain Controllers in the domain.
* Enterprise Read-Only Domain Controllers - Members of this group are Read-Only Domain Controllers in the enterprise.
* Key Admins - Members of this group can perform administrative actions on key objects within the domain.
* Enterprise Key Admins - Members of this group can perform administrative actions on key objects within the forest.
* Cloneable Domain Controllers - Members of this group that are domain controllers may be cloned.
* RAS and IAS Servers - Servers in this group can access remote access properties of users.



# Trusts + Policies
---
Trusts and policies go hand in hand to help the domain and trees communicate with each other and maintain "security" inside of the network. They put the rules in place of how the domains inside of a forest can interact with each other, how an external forest can interact with the forest, and the overall domain rules or policies that a domain must follow.

### Domain Trusts
**Trusts are a mechanism in place for users in the network to gain access to other resources in the domain.** For the most part, trusts outline the way that the domains inside of a forest communicate to each other, in some environments trusts can be extended out to external domains and even forests in some cases.
* Directional - The direction of the trust flows from a trusting domain to a trusted domain.
* Transitive - The trust relationship expands beyond just two domains to include other trusted domains.

**Trusts are a mechanism in place for users in the network to gain access to other resources in the domain. For the most part, trusts outline the way that the domains inside of a forest communicate to each other, in some environments trusts can be extended out to external domains and even forests in some cases.**

### Domain Policies
**Policies are a very big part of Active Directory, they dictate how the server operates and what rules it will and will not follow.** They simply act as a rulebook for Active  Directory that a domain admin can modify and alter as they deem necessary to keep the network running smoothly and securely. The options for domain policies are almost endless and are a big factor for attackers when enumerating an Active Directory network.
A few of the many policies that are default in an AD environment:
* Disable Windows Defender - Disables windows defender across all machine on the domain.
* Digitally Sign Communication (Always) - Can disable or enable SMB signing on the domain controller.



# AD DS + Authentication
---
The Active Directory domain services are the core functions of an Active Directory network; they allow for management of the domain, security certificates, LDAPs, and much more. This is how the domain controller decides what it wants to do and what services it wants to provide for the domain.

### Domain Services
Are services that the domain controller provides to the rest of the domain or tree. There is a wide range of various services that can be added to a domain controller.
A brief outline of default DS:
* LDAP - Lightweight Directory Access Protocol; provides communication between applications and directory services.
* Certificate Services - allows the domain controller to create, validate, and revoke public key certificates.
* DNS, LLMNR, NBT-NS - Domain Name Services for identifying IP hostnames.

### Domain Authentication
**Most important part of Active Directory -- as well as the most vulnerable part of Active Directory.**
There are two main types of authentication for AD. **NTLM and Kerberos**
*  Kerberos - The default authentication service for Active Directory uses ticket-granting tickets and service tickets to authenticate users and give users access to other resources across the domain.
* NTLM - default Windows authentication protocol uses an encrypted challenge/response protocol